---
title: SQS(Simple Queue Service) 
date: 2023-08-12
tags:
	- aws
categories: 
	- aws
---

## Introduction

Fully managed **queuing service** that enables you to decouple and scale microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications

### What is a Messaging System?

Used to provide asynchronous communication and decouple processes via messages/events. From a sender and receiver(producer and consumer)

### Queuing

Generally will delete message once they are consumed. Simple communciation. **Not Real-time.** Have to pull. Not reactive.

### Streaming

Multiple consumers can **react** to events(messages). Event live in the stream for long periods of time, so complex operations can be applied. **Real-time**

### SQS is for **Application Integration**

AWS SQS is a solution for the distributed **queuing** of messages generated by your application. It connects isolate applications together by passing along message to one another.

A **queue** is a temporary repository for messages that are awaiting processing.

Using the **AWS SDK** you write code which publishes messages onto the queue or you pull the queue for messages.

SQS is pull based, not push based.

## Use Case

1. App publishes messages to the queue.
2. Other app pulls the queue and find the message and does something.
3. Other app reports that they completed their task and marks the message for completion.
4. Original app pulls the queue and sees the message is no longer in the queue.

Both apps are using the **AWS SDK** to push messages and pull the queue.

## SQS Limits & Retention

### Message Size

The size of a message can be between **1 byte and 256KB**

### Amazon SQS Extended Client Library for JAVA(only for JAVA)

Lets you send messages **256KB to 2GB** in size. The message will be stored in S3 and library will reference the S3 object.

### Message Retention

How long SQS will hold onto a message in the queue before dropping it from the queue(deleting it)

* Message retention by default is 4 days.
* Message retention can be adjusted from a minimum of **60 seconds** to a **max of 14 Days**

## SQS Queue Types

### Standard Queues

* AWS SQS **Standard Queues** allow you a **nearly-unlimited** number of transactions per second.
* Guarantees that a message will be delivered **AT LEASTi once**.
* **More than one copy** of a message could be potentially delivered **out of order**.
* Provide **best-effort ordering** that helps ensure a message is generally delivered in the same order that it was sent.

### FIFO Queues

AWS SQS **First-In-First-Out** queues supprot multiple ordered message groups whitin a single queue.

Limited to 300 transactions per second.

AWS FIFO queues have all the same capabilities of a Standard Queue.

### SQS Visibility Timeout

How do we prevent another app from reading a message while another one is busy with that message? (Avoid someone doing the same task)

A **visibility time-out** is the period of time that messages are **invisible in the SQS queue**, after a reader picks up that message.

The default visible time-out is 30 seconds, you can set it from **0 seconds to 12 hours**

Messages will be **deleted** from the queue **after a job has precessed**.(before the visibility timeout expires)

If a job is **NOT** processed before the visibility time-out period, the message will **become visible agina** and another reader will process it.

This can result in the same message being delivered **twice**

## Shorts vs Long Polling

**Polling** is the method in which we retrieve messages from the queues.

### Short Polling

Short Polling(default) returns messages immediately, even if the message queue being polled is empty.

When you need a message **right away**, short polling is what you want to use.

### Long Polling

Long polling waits until the message **arrives in the queue**, or the **long poll timeout expires**

Long polling makes it **inexpensive to retrieve messages** from your queue as soon as the message are available.

Using long polling will reduce the cost because you can **reduce the number of empty receives**.

**Most use-cases** you want to use Long Polling.

## Cheat Sheet

* SQS is a queuing service using messages with a queue. Think Sidekiq or RabbitMQ.
* SQS is used for Application Integration, it lets decoupled services and apps to talk to each other.
* To read SQS need to **pull** the queue using AWS SDK.
  * SQS is **not pushed-based**
* SQS supprots both Standard and First-In-First-Out(FIFO) queues
* Standard allows nearly unlimited messages per second, does not guarantee order of delivery, always delivers at least once, you must protect again dulicate message being processed.
* FIFO maintain the order of messages with a 300 limit.
* There are 2 kinds of polling
  * Short(default)
  * Long Polling
* Short polling returns messages immediately, even if the message queue being polled is empty.
* Long polling waits until message arrives in the queue, or the long poll timeout expires.
* **Visbility time-out** is the period of time that message are invisible in the SQS queue.
* Messages will be deleted from queue after a job has processed.(before visiblity timeout expires)
* If Visibility timeout expires then a job will become visible to the queue.
* The default Visibility timeout is 30 seconds. Timeout can be **0 seconds** to maximum of 12 hours.
* SQS can retain messages from 60 seconds to 14 days and by default is 4 days.
* Message size between 1 byte to 256 kb. Extended Client Library for Java can increase to 2GB.
